---
layout: post
title: A Journey of a Thousand Miles Begins with a Single Step - Laozi
date: May 17, 2014
category: code
customid: week7culturalblog
---
Looking back at my values that I wrote about in an earlier blog post, I've noticed that thou I've picked personal growth as the value I choose to be most important. It has probably been the thing that has caused me the most pain in my years since college. I've noticed that I've generally set my expectations way higher than the actual outcomes of my ambitions. I'd like to think most people tend to underestimate the time to takes to complete a big task or the time it takes make a certain amount of progress on a goal. There's a quote that I like by Michelangelo, "The greater danger for most of us lies not in setting our aim too high and falling short; but in setting our aim too low, and achieving our mark." I've tried to live by these words, but often find myself wanting to give in. That the aspirations I've had were just not meant for me, at least not right now..	

I'm waiting for the day, when I can say that the bullshit I've gone through, all the time that I've wasted and the hardships that I've endured was worth it. To say it was all worth it, because it got me to where I am, and where am I is where I wanted to be. I don't know if that day will ever arrive or if I'll ever get close, but I'm still hoping. People say that life is about the journey and not the destination. But sometimes it's just seems so hard when you are the character of your game of life. But in this game, every time you think you've made a little progress, you find yourself died and being force to start at the beginning of the game all over again. 

At the end of the day, when all has been said, I'm still thankful. I'm thankful that I've had wonderful parents, who have been supportive, despite my lack of accomplishments. It pains me when, I hear my parents have conversations about how their children are doing, when the subject of me comes up, it's always been from the other end a vague implication of something along the lines of, " So your son still hasn"t gotten a real job yet?" My parents are too kind when they always respond in a way that gives me the benefit of the doubt. It bites at my self-esteem to a point where it feels almost hollow. I want to be a son that my parents can speak proudly of, but I also want to live a life doing things I am passionate about. I am hoping that one day, I can have both. And so as the days countdown till my flight to Chicago, one chapter of my life is closing, and I got the feeling that the next chapter going to be a lot better than the last one. 