---
layout: post
title: My Thinking Style
date: May 23, 2014
category: code
comments: true
customid: week8culturalblog
---
My Gregorc Thinking Style is pretty much a 50/50 split between concrete random and abstract Sequential.   As a learner, I like to analyze the situation before taking acting.  I also like applying logic when finding solutions.  However after I find that I have a grasp of situation I will tend experiment to find answers, take risks, and use my intuition.  I learn best when I have access to experts or references, am placed in a stimulating environment, and am able to work alone.  I like to be able to use trial-and-error approaches when I have a grasp what I want to do. I have a competitive nature, and prefer to problem solve independently. What’s difficult for me is being forced to work with those of differing views, not enough time spent deal with a subject thoroughly, doing same task over and over, too many restrictions and limitations, expressing my emotions, being diplomatic when convincing others, creating formal reports, re-doing anything once it’s done, keeping detailed records, showing how I got the answer, choosing only one answer, and having no other options.Considering my experience in Phase 0 of Dev Bootcamp up till now, my biggest struggle has been finding a way to contribute when I’m working with someone significantly smarter or more experienced than me.   When going along with someone else’s approach that would not normally have been my approach, I find myself spending a lot of time thoroughly understanding and figuring out what it is the other person wants to achieve.  Sometimes, the other person may feel like they’re talking to a blank wall, other times I may be constantly asking questions just to get clarification on every little detail.  I don’t know if this is normal when there’s a significant gap between two programmers pairing, but I hope to be able to get quicker at understanding my partner’s perspective and be able to contribute immediately.  After pairing with a good amount of people, I’ve learned when to take more of a lead, and when to just follow.  Another thing that I’ve learned to appreciate over the course of Phase 0 is refactoring. I really like making code shorter while still keeping it readable.  Any day I can convert my solution into a one liner is a good day.